{
"@context": "https://schema.org",
"@type": "WebPage",
"name": "Callum, Chapter 16",
"url": "https://jazblue.github.io/book/callum-chapter-sixteen.html"
}
Callum, Chapter 16
:root {
--bg: #0f1115;
--panel: #171a21;
--panel-2: #202532;
--text: #f3f4f6;
--muted: #a9b0be;
--accent: #8b9fff;
--border: rgba(255,255,255,0.08);
--shadow: 0 20px 50px rgba(0,0,0,0.35);
}
* { box-sizing: border-box; }
body {
margin: 0;
font-family: Georgia, "Times New Roman", serif;
background: radial-gradient(circle at top, #1c2233 0%, var(--bg) 55%);
color: var(--text);
line-height: 1.7;
}
.wrap { max-width: 980px; margin: 0 auto; padding: 32px 20px 60px; }
.hero, .panel {
background: rgba(23, 26, 33, 0.92);
border: 1px solid var(--border);
border-radius: 18px;
box-shadow: var(--shadow);
backdrop-filter: blur(6px);
}
.hero { padding: 28px; margin-bottom: 22px; }
.eyebrow {
display: inline-block;
font-size: 12px;
text-transform: uppercase;
letter-spacing: 0.12em;
color: #d9c27a;
margin-bottom: 10px;
}
h1 { margin: 0 0 10px; font-size: clamp(30px, 5vw, 48px); line-height: 1.08; }
.sub { margin: 0; color: var(--muted); font-size: 18px; max-width: 44rem; }
.panel { padding: 22px; margin-bottom: 18px; }
.story { white-space: pre-wrap; font-size: 19px; }
.story p { margin: 0 0 1.1em; }
.back { display: inline-block; margin-bottom: 18px; color: #c7d2ff; }
.audio-grid { display: grid; gap: 14px; }
.audio-card {
background: var(--panel-2);
border: 1px solid var(--border);
border-radius: 14px;
padding: 16px;
}
.audio-card h3 {
margin: 0 0 6px; font-size: 18px;
font-family: Inter, system-ui, sans-serif;
}
.audio-card p {
margin: 0 0 12px; color: var(--muted); font-size: 14px;
font-family: Inter, system-ui, sans-serif;
}
audio { width: 100%; margin-bottom: 10px; }
.chapter-nav a { color: #c7d2ff; text-decoration: none; font-family: Inter, system-ui, sans-serif; }
.chapter-nav { padding: 0 4px; }
&larr; Previous chapter Back to index &rarr;
&larr; Back
Callum
Chapter Sixteen: The Father in the Room
Deborah sat in her own kitchen, the morning still grey outside, and tried to say the words out loud for the first time in nineteen years.
Deborah sat in her own kitchen, the morning still grey outside, and tried to say the words out loud for the first time in nineteen years.
Owen was at school. The house was quiet in the ordinary way — fridge humming, kettle cooling on the stove, the radiator giving up one last, irregular clank before going quiet for the day. Callum's door at the end of the hall was shut. She hadn't opened it. That was the thing she had decided, the night before, walking back across Alder Lane with Megan's face still in her head: she would tell him today. She would sit him down. She would say what she had seen.
But the kitchen had other ideas.
She stood at the sink with two mugs of tea she didn't want and tried to get the first sentence started. Callum. I went to the house. No. Too blunt. There's something in number nine. No — that made it sound like a possession, and she wasn't sure yet that it was.
She tried again. I need to talk to you about something. Better. Safer. The kind of sentence that didn't ask for anything yet.
And as she said it, quietly, to the window, something in the back of her mind stirred. Not a thought. A pull. The sort of pull you feel before you hear a door close upstairs when you're the only person in the house.
Then she knew what it was.
The father.
She hadn't planned to name him. That morning, or any morning. Nineteen years is a long time to carry a silence, and by the end of it you forget it has a name at all. You just know the shape of it, the weight of it, the way it sits at the far end of every room and looks at you when you're not looking.
But the house had made a connection, and houses are good at that. They join things that have no right to be joined.
Deborah put one of the mugs down and looked at the table.
Not at Megan's key — that was safe under Callum's pillow upstairs, or she hoped it was; she hadn't checked, and part of her was glad she hadn't — but at the empty space where the table would have been fifteen years ago, before Owen, before the job at the supermarket, before the quiet years she had agreed to without ever signing anything.
She tried to remember the father's name.
He had one, obviously. It was on her tongue sometimes, in the angry years, when she said it in private and it tasted like a swear. But she couldn't get it in that moment. She could only get the shape of him. Tall, as Callum had been as a child and never quite grew out of. Rough beard that he never quite shaved properly. The kind of eyes you get when you've learned early that nobody's going to ask you anything worth answering.
She remembered a Saturday, maybe. One of those bright, cruel summer days where even the dust on the windowsill looks offended. Callum was little — six, maybe seven — sitting on the sofa with a comic, legs swinging, one sock missing. The father was standing by the door in his work clothes, coat on, keys in his hand, looking at her with an expression she had never understood and had spent fifteen years resenting him for.
Not love. Not anger. Something in between. Affection, maybe, but of the kind that never committed to anything. The look of a man saying I'll see you soon when what he meant was I already don't know if I will .
Deborah had put down the iron she'd been holding.
"Where are you going?" she'd asked him.
He hadn't answered straight. He never did. "Out for a bit," he'd said. "Back later."
Callum had looked up from his comic. "Dad."
Just that. One word. The way children say a name when they want the world to stop spinning for one second so they can get off.
The father had paused. Looked down at him. Looked at Deborah. Then he'd smiled — a real one, the first she'd seen from him in weeks, which was probably why it hurt so much — and said something she couldn't remember now, something meant kindly, something that sounded like promise. Then he'd opened the door and gone out into the bright street and never come back that day, or the next, or the day after that.
Nineteen years.
The official story, if you needed one — and Deborah had needed one more than once, at the school, at the job centre, in the dark years when someone always wanted a reason — was that he'd left. That was the word she used with Owen when he was small and asked and she couldn't bear to give him the full architecture of disappointment. He left. Clean. Final. A fact, if you didn't look too closely at what left meant.
The truth, which she had never said aloud, was that he'd stayed. For a bit. He'd stayed in the house, in the rooms, in the shape of the days she'd made for herself around his absence, long after his shoes had been moved from the hall and his coat taken to the charity shop by a neighbour who thought she was being helpful. He'd stayed in the way the kitchen table was always a little too large for three people and a little too small for the silence they made together. He'd stayed in the way Deborah caught herself listening for the front door on evenings he might have come home, long after she'd stopped believing in evenings.
And then she had stopped.
Stopped listening. Stopped asking. Stopped introducing his name into sentences to Owen, until eventually she couldn't remember how to say it at all. Not out of cruelty. Out of the kind of tiredness that comes from carrying a thing for too long and deciding that if you put it down nobody will notice it missing.
The kitchen radio was on low — a cheerful presenter talking about the weather, which was the most useless thing anyone had ever invented and Deborah resented it more than most things — and she stood there with her hands around a mug she didn't want, and the father was in the room with her now, sitting in the chair she'd left empty on purpose for a spot of space that nobody ever used.
She had told herself for years that she'd done the right thing. That speaking about him would only hurt Owen. That Callum had enough to deal with. That the father was a closed book and she'd closed it properly.
A lie. All of it.
She hadn't done it for Owen. She'd done it because she couldn't bear the look on Callum's face when he asked. He had asked, once. Not when he was little — little children don't ask the hard questions, they just absorb the weather. He'd asked when he was thirteen, sitting on the stairs with his school shoes still on, looking at her in the kitchen doorway with the kind of directness only a child who's decided he's old enough to stop being frightened can manage.
"Mum," he'd said. "Where's Dad?"
And she had said something — gone, not around, don't know, something that sounded final but wasn't, because she couldn't bear to say the name and she couldn't bear to tell him that she'd been the one who'd let him stay away, because it was easier to pretend he'd left than to admit she'd let him.
Callum had nodded. Accepted it. Gone back to whatever he was doing. But she'd seen his face when he thought she'd looked away — a tightening around the mouth, a flicker of something that wasn't anger exactly, more like recognition. As if he'd known before she said anything that she was lying, and as if he'd decided, right then, that he wouldn't ask again.
That was the day she'd stopped, really. Not the day he left. The day she'd noticed he knew.
Now the father was sitting in the chair in the kitchen, and she couldn't look at him directly because she'd spent so long looking away. But she could feel him looking at Callum upstairs, at the closed door, at the key under the pillow that she'd promised herself she'd ask about today. He was looking at the boy with an expression she recognised — not affection, not quite, but a kind of impossible pride. The pride of a man who's disappeared and then found the people he left behind have figured out how to survive him without him.
Deborah set the mug down properly this time.
She walked to the stairs.
She put her hand on Callum's door. It was shut, as she'd left it. The lock — the one he'd put on — was turned. She hesitated. Then, very gently, she turned the handle and opened it.
He was on the bed, on his back, one arm thrown over his eyes, breathing even and shallow. Asleep, or close to it. The room was dark, as he liked it, curtains drawn, the computer screen dark. Just the shape of him in the bed, all sharp edges and quiet.
She didn't wake him. Not yet.
She went back downstairs and stood in the kitchen again, and this time she said the name.
"Niall," she said to the empty chair.
And the room went very still. Not the stillness of number nine — that was a different thing, colder, older, a stillness that had been waiting. This was the stillness of a thing that had been named after nineteen years and didn't know what to do with the name yet.
She said it again.
"Niall."
And upstairs, in the room with the drawn curtains, Callum's breathing changed. Just slightly. A fraction of a second longer between the inhales. As if he'd heard something. As if the name, spoken from downstairs, had found its way through the floorboards and the walls and the year nineteen years had made of itself and reached him exactly where he was.
Deborah stood in the kitchen and listened.
The kettle clicked as it cooled. The radiator gave one last groan. Owen's school shoes sat by the back door, waiting. The father sat in the empty chair and did not move, because there was nothing to move to. He had been moved into the room, that was all. Named. Present. Which was the worst thing and the best thing and possibly the same thing.
She turned and walked to the hall cupboard and opened it. Her coat hung there. Her umbrella. A box of old photographs she'd meant to throw out for years and never had. She took down the box and carried it to the kitchen table.
Inside: a few pictures of Callum as a child, grinning with missing front teeth. Owen at the beach, the same summer. Deborah younger, less tired, standing outside a different house, a house she couldn't quite remember the address of, smiling at a man whose face had gone soft in the photograph and whose name she could now remember because she'd said it.
Niall.
She looked at him in the picture. That was the thing she hadn't expected — that he wasn't terrible in it. Just tired. Just a man trying, badly, to stay in a life that had started moving around him. There was nothing monstrous in the photograph. No dramatic exit. No grand reason. Just a man and a door and the decision not to come back through it.
She thought about calling Callum down. About standing at the bottom of the stairs and shouting his name and telling him everything — about the house, about Megan, about the breathing in the walls and the key and the locked room — and about his father, too, finally, the whole truth.
She didn't. Not yet.
Instead she sat down at the table with the photograph in front of her and the two cold mugs and waited until upstairs she heard the mattress creak, and then a slow shift of weight, and then Callum standing up, and then the big toe of his socked foot touching the floor and the silence of the house changing shape around it.
She waited some more.
Then she said, quietly, "Callum."
No answer. Not yet.
She waited.
And in the room upstairs, with the curtains drawn and the computer dark and the lock on the door, Callum lay on the bed and listened, and the name that came down through the floor was not his mother's voice so much as the shape of something opening in the house, something that had been locked for nineteen years and was finally, quietly, letting itself be heard.
(function() {
try {
const key = 'book_visits';
const count = parseInt(localStorage.getItem(key) || '0', 10) + 1;
localStorage.setItem(key, String(count));
const el = document.getElementById('visitor-count');
if (el) el.textContent = 'Visitor count: ' + count.toLocaleString();
} catch (e) {
var el = document.getElementById('visitor-count');
if (el) el.textContent = 'Visitor count: unavailable';
}
})();